(DOCSP-26930): IA Refresh '[Port] Define Custom User Metadata' (#291)
mongodb/docs-app-services: source/users/custom-metadata.txt

> .. _custom-metadata:

Reviewer: nice

Reviewer: and good you included `custom-user-data` below. it can be dangerous to fully delete refs b/c they can be used by other repos (docs-realm for example).

.. _custom-user-data:

> .. _configure-user-metadata-on-the-backend:

Reviewer: i recommend putting this ref on top of the "Enable User Metadata" section

Overview
--------

You can configure Atlas App Services to store :ref:`custom user data <custom-user-data>` 

> in MongoDB Atlas for the App's user. You can also configure App Services to store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 for the App's user in MongoDB Atlas. You can also configure App Services to store
```

Overview
--------

> You can define :ref:`custom user data <custom-user-data>` in MongoDB Atlas and 
> configure App Services to store and access each user's data. App Services can also read 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure Atlas App Services to store :ref:`custom user data <custom-user-data>` in MongoDB Atlas for the App's user. App Services can also read 
```

Reviewer: this and following suggestion for clarity and concision

:ref:`user metadata <configure-user-metadata-on-the-backend>` from authentication 

> providers. You can configure App Services to request and access the metadata that you 
> want from each provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
providers.
```

removing b/c this is more detail than needed here. this is info better suited for the below user metadata section.

Overview
--------

> Through user accounts, you can store and access metadata and custom data for each user.

Reviewer: i think this should be rephrased to be cleaer that 'metadata' is referring to auth provider-specific metadata. 

i'd recommend a small paragraph or perhaps an intro sentence w 2 bullet points.

         application <flutter-custom-user-data>`.

Enable User Metadata 
--------------------

Atlas App Services can read user metadata from authentication providers. Then, 
App Services exposes each user's data in a field of their :ref:`user 
object <user-objects>`. For example, you might want to access a user's name, 
email, birthday, or gender.

You can configure App Services to request metadata with the access token 
when users log in. You can access that data from the logged-in user's 
object with a client SDK.

Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can define the metadata to request when you configure authentication 
providers. Specify optional metadata fields that you want to access through 
the user's account. These metadata fields vary depending on provider.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Facebook
     - Google
     - Custom JWT

   * - - ``name``
       - ``first_name``
       - ``last_name``
       - ``picture``
       - ``gender``
       - ``birthday``
       - ``min_age``
       - ``max_age``
       - ``email``

     - - ``name``
       - ``first_name``
       - ``last_name``
       - ``picture``
       - ``email``

>      - - Custom

Reviewer: maybe just add the content from the note below to this cell?

>      - - Custom

Reviewer: also, this is an odd way to present this data. the axes seem flipped. i'd think a more logical layout would be:

| Provider | Data |
|:-- | :-- |
| Facebook | Data related to FB... |
| Google | Data related to Google... |
| Custom JWT | Custom JWT data description, maybe taken from that note... |

            .. code-block:: javascript
               :caption: /auth/providers.json

               { ...other config details...
                 "metadata_fields": [
                   {
                     "required": true,
                     "name": "user.name",
                     "field_name": "name"
                   },
                   {
                     "required": false,
                     "name": "user.favoriteColor",
                     "field_name": "favoriteColor"
                   }
                 ]
               }

         .. step:: Deploy the Custom User Data Configuration

            Once you've configured custom user data, you can push the updated config to
            your remote app. {+cli+} immediately deploys the update on push.

            .. code-block:: bash

               realm-cli push --remote="<Your App ID>"

Access User Metadata from a Client Application
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. tabs-realm-sdks::

   .. tab::
      :tabid: ios

      .. tip:: Read a User's Metadata
         
         Learn how to :ref:`read a user's metadata from an iOS
         application <ios-read-user-metadata>`.

> 

Reviewer: [suggestion] pretty sure other SDKs have this info. worth looking into

Author: Thanks! Added this suggestion but could only find info for Flutter and .NET.

Reviewer: that's all the docs that prob exist for it now. was added as part of new IA updates.

bonus points if you add tickets for adding to other SDKs and then add links to those docs from this page.

Reviewer: thanks for making those david! and i think merging this before those is OK. tho noting in those tickets to also update here would make sense.

Author: Sounds good! Just added a note in the tickets and will merge this in soon.

         Learn how to :ref:`access Custom User Data from a Flutter
         application <flutter-custom-user-data>`.

.. _configure-user-metadata-on-the-backend:

Enable User Metadata 
--------------------

Atlas App Services can read user metadata from authentication providers. Then, 
App Services exposes each user's data in a field of their :ref:`user 
object <user-objects>`. For example, you might want to access a user's name, 
email, birthday, or gender.

You can configure App Services to request metadata with the access token 
when users log in. You can access that data from the logged-in user's 
object with a client SDK.

Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can define the metadata to request when you configure authentication 
providers. Specify optional metadata fields that you want to access through 
the user's account. These metadata fields vary depending on provider.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 80

   * - Provider
     - Metadata fields

   * - Facebook

>      - ``name``, ``first_name``, ``last_name``, ``picture``, ``gender``, 
>        ``birthday``, ``min_age``, ``max_age``, ``email``
>    
>    * - Google
>      - ``name``, ``first_name``, ``last_name``, ``picture``, ``email``

Reviewer: nit: i'd keep the bulleted list w/in each of these table cells. easier to read.

```suggestion
     - - ``name``
       - ``first_name``
       - ``last_name``
       - ``picture``
       - ``gender``, 
       - ``birthday``
       - ``min_age``
       - ``max_age``
       - ``email``
   
   * - Google
     - - ``name``
       - ``first_name``
       - ``last_name``
       - ``picture``
       - ``email``
```

if you accept this suggestion, pls make sure that the staging build works correctly. i'm like 90% sure this is correct snooty, but not 100%.
